This book was written when I spent a year at the Princeton Institute for Advanced
Study. It is hard to imagine an environment that is more stimulating or more congenial
to writing. Many colleagues at the Institute helped shaped my thinking, but six deserve special mention¡ªDidier 
Fassin for his mentorship and remarkable breadth of knowledge
 and ideas; Joan Scott, who helped me think through the nature of ¡°remote intimacy¡±; 
Michael Walzer, also writing on drones, whose questions forced me to think more deeply;
 Freeman Dyson, who, as smart as ever at ninety-one, is deeply com
mitted to dialogue between
 the natural and social sciences and, for the founde
e warfare; Richard Wilson, who in answer to
 a stray question over lunch about drones and the law, gave me an improm
ptu minilecture that provided 
the framework for my penultimate chapter; and Anver Emon, who was ki
nd enough to review that chapter for
 legal accuracy and overall acuity. Thanks also to Tom Boellstorff, Faye Gins
burg, and Michelle Murphy for productive suggestions 
about drones as a media technology and to old comrad
es from the Network of Concerned Anthropologists¡ªparticularly Catherine Besteman, 
Greg Feldman, and David Price¡ªfor being on the loo
kout for material for me. Kathe
rine Chandler and John Cloud both helped improve my 
understanding of drone history. This book was originally conceived as an elaboration of a 
chapter on the anthropology of drones that was 
written in response to an invitation from Matthew Evangel
ista and Henry Shue. My thanks to both of them for that invitation and their gentle
 insistence that I broaden my reading on the topic. I tried out early versions of 
some of the arguments in this book in my regular column for 
the Bulletin of Atomic Scientists. A succession of editors there¡ªJosh Schollmeyer, Mindy Kay Bricker, John Mecklin, Sasha Scoblic, and Elisabeth 
Eaves¡ªgave me the latitude to experiment outside the normal territory of the Bulletin and helped 
improve my expression. As this book simmered in
 my mind, I gave presentations to several audiences, whose members provided helpful feedback¡ªthe 
anthropology department at New York University, M. V. Ramana¡¯s series at Princeton¡¯s
On August 5th, officials at the Central Intelligence Agency, in Langley, Virginia, 
watched a live video feed relaying closeup footage of one of the most wanted terrorists 
in Pakistan. Baitullah Mehsud, the leader of the Taliban in Pakistan, could be seen 
reclining on the rooftop of his father-inlaw¡¯s house, in Zanghara, a hamlet in South 
Waziristan. It was a hot summer night, and he was joined outside by his wife and his uncle, 
a medic; at one point, the remarkably crisp images showed that Mehsud, who suffered from 
diabetes and a kidney ailment, was receiving an intravenous drip. The video was being captured 
by the infrared camera of a Predator drone, a remotely controlled, unmanned plane that had been 
hovering, undetected, two miles or so above the house. Pakistan¡¯s Interior Minister, A. Rehman Malik, 
told me recently that Mehsud was resting on his back. Malik, using his hands to make a picture frame, explained that 
the Predator¡¯s targeters could see Mehsud¡¯s entire body, not just the top of his head. ¡°It was a perfect picture,¡± Malik, 
who watched the videotape later, said. ¡°We used to see James Bond movies where he talked into his shoe or his watch. 
We thought it was a fairy tale. But this was fact!¡± The image remained just as stable when the C.I.A. remotely launched 
two Hellfire missiles from the Predator. Authorities watched the fiery blast in real time. After the dust 
cloud dissipated, all that remained of Mehsud was a detached torso. Eleven others died: his wife, his 
father-in-law, his motherin-law, a lieutenant, and seven bodyguard
There are a number of striking features to this account, which is told from the 
point of view of the executioners. A technology that is almost magical gives its 
owners, who are looking on the scene from high in the sky, a godlike power over 
life and death. The observation of the scene is simultaneously intimate and remote. 
It is also deeply asymmetrical: Mehsud, unaware of his exposure, is watched by faraway 
drone operators who can see him as if close up, reclining on the roof of his house on a 
hot evening as his wife attends to his medical needs. They get to frame the picture while 
he does not even realize he is in it. Without warning, he is killed as if by a god¡¯s 
thunderbolt from the sky. Seen from Virginia, the drone strike is quick, clean, and bloodless. 
Mehsud¡¯s death is instant. Nor, described unambiguously as a terrorist, does he seem undeserving 
of death. Twelve people die altogether, but the narrative marks only Mehsud¡¯s death as significant. 
The other deaths are almost outside the frame. And in a way that amplifies the strange mix of distance 
and intimacy, the scene is mediated entirely through a single sense¡ª vision. 
The attack has no sound, smell, taste, or texture. And we are invited to experience 
it through a narrative of mastery and control¡ªof the cool, righteous exercise of overwhelming power. 